>> Bianca Gandolfo: Let's just take a tour
of what this tree actually looks like.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: You guys
see what I'm doing here?
So we created a tree.
We added three branches to the root.
And now, from those branches,
I'm gonna add some more children.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
we're gonna walk through and
we're gonna see what
this actually looks like.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool?
So we looked at the linked list, and
they hold a reference to the next.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Let's check this out.
So tree, we instantiate our new tree,
which is an object that has this.value,
right, which is 1.
And it also has another property,
this.children.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Let's
just remove the this, and
it'll actually be object literal notation,
right, which starts out as empty.
So there's our tree, and
we add a child, oops.
When we add our child,
it goes in here, right?
The value is 2,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: children,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Is another array.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay, so
now we add another child with the value 3,
with the value tree, the value this many.
Where does it go?
>> off screen male: Inside
the empty array.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Inside
the empty array?
>> off screen male: branch2 is-
>> Bianca Gandolfo: It's outside, right,
another new array?
>> off screen male: What is page two?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: I don't know,
what does the code say?
So the code says, addChild, we pass 3,
so we're gonna create a new tree.
>> off screen male: It's a new branch,
so yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So value was 3,
and then children, right,
it's gonna have its own children, yeah?
>> off screen male: Yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And then we're gonna
say this.children.push[child].
So what is this?
>> off screen male: The original tree?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: The original tree,
whatever's to the left of this dot.
So the original tree, which is our
first one, we're gonna push it.
So it's gonna tack it on the end.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
we put a comma there, and then we tack it.
>> off screen male: So
it's making a new array with different
elements
>> Bianca Gandolfo: It's the same array
with an added, so
this is the original array.
>> off screen male: Uh-huh.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
then we're simply pushing to the next.
>> off screen male: It's
adding a new element.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yes, yes, exactly, and
then what about this one, 4?
>> off screen male: That
added a new element.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep,
to the same array.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: I'm just
gonna put some dot dot dots here,
cuz we understand that now, right?
Cool.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What about this one?
How does this affect our?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: I'm
gonna put some dots there.
So we say branch1.addChild(5).
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So let's hop in here,
value is 5, so it'll look like this.
And then we say this.children.push.
The real question is, what is this?
>> off screen female: branch1.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, this is branch1.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And remember,
branch1 is the one that has the value 2.
And so this refers to this
entire object, right?
This is branch1, so
.children dot push.
So we're gonna push it there.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: This
is getting really long.
Let's do some indenting.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Put that in there,
etc.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Do we
see what's happening here?
So branch1.addChild(6).
Again, here is branch1.
We're gonna push it to a child array.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: It has the value 6,
okay?
If I wanted to
add,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: A node or
tree here into this children array,
how might I do that?
>> off screen male: Well, you could just
add dot add child, whatever, to that line.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: To this one?
>> off screen male: Yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm,
so we can chain it.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: The reason we can
chain it is because we're returning
the child.
If we do not return the child,
we cannot chain.
That's important.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool, so
now things are getting crazy.
So this is our tree.
So our tree is like a super nested
collection of objects and arrays, right?
It could be a bajillion deep.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool, any questions
about what this is really looking?
It looks all nice, right,
when we have our little
constructor functions here and
our methods.
But then when we get down to it,
it's a little messy.
>> off screen male: It's kind of like,
is it a shell,
kind of like that's growing inside?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: A shell that's
growing inside, yeah, definitely.
It's not growing outside, right?
It's gonna keep growing from this root.
>> off screen male: Yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Right, from this root,
it's gonna grow inside this children.
It's gonna be nested in there somewhere.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And then we could
add this entire tree as a child
to another tree.
And we would just be putting
it into their children array.
Then it gets really crazy.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool, but
we know this is recursive because we
see the same pattern over and over again.
And when you think,
nested data structure, same pattern,
your mind should be thinking,
this is a recursive algorithm, yeah?
Cool, reflections on our tree?
>> off screen male: Well,
I just had a quick question.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
>> off screen male: You said if you don't
put return child,
then you can't chain them.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
>> off screen male: So that does mean
you'd have to say branch1 dot, or you
would have to create a variable for the
one that contains six, and then add it?
Is that what you would have to do, or?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
you'd have to somehow access,
you'd have to save a reference
to this node, right?
And if you don't return it,
that means you're gonna have to traverse
through the data structure and find it.
>> off screen male: I see.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
>> off screen male: Okay.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Unless you're saving
it somewhere.
You'd have to save it somewhere.
So what that would look like is some
recursive loop searching for the value 6.
Yeah, okay, reflections?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Tell me about trees.
What's your favorite thing about a tree?
>> off screen male: They're leafy.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What's that?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: They're leafy,
leafy and green.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What else, anything?
Did you guys find that when you approach
this data structure that you had
the same blanking sensation from
a linked list or a stack and queue?
>> off screen male: To me,
it just makes much more sense,
for some reason
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah?
>> off screen male: Yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool,
makes more sense.
>> off screen male: I think it's
probably because most, I don't know,
operating systems use the tree,
right, with the folders.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
>> off screen male: Folder tree kinda
things, so you're used to that structure,
I guess, I don't know.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, maybe,
but I feel like stacks and
queues are pretty common as well.
Linked list, maybe a little less
common that we recognize it, at least.
>> off screen male: Mm-hm.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, yeah, and
we use trees a lot for frontend,
our frontend DOM.
>> off screen male: Mm-hm.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
>> off screen male: Your lists,
linked lists, you said, or
trees, what's more common use?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What's more
commonly used, a linked list or a tree?
>> off screen male: Yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: I don't know.
I think that trees, you'll be working,
as a frontend engineer, you're gonna be
working with trees a lot more than
a linked list, for sure, in JavaScript.
Yeah, I can say that.
>> off screen male: JSON.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, mm-hm.
>> off screen male: Would
be a good example.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
doesn't this look a lot like JSON?
>> off screen male: Mm-hm.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Some
nested data structure.
Yeah, absolutely.
I like that connection.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: All right, so
it makes more sense that a linked list,
queue or stack.
Very interesting.
I have a theory that it makes more sense
because perhaps you've
seen the linked list.
And now you have something to connect it
to, so sort of scaffolding those ideas.
That's my sense, but I could be wrong.
>> off screen male: Well, I didn't think
about the DOM until you said it, but
that might be part of it too.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
>> off screen male: Just used to that, so.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
>> off screen male: But, yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Traversing the DOM.
Cool.